We'll now learn to
generates counts,
which you can then
use as features into
your logistic
regression classifier.
Specifically, given a word,
you want to keep track
of the number of times,
that's where it shows up
as the positive class.
Given another word you want
to keep track of the number of
times that word showed up
in the negative class.
Using both those counts,
you can then extract
features and use
those features into your
logistic regression classifier.
So let's take a look at
how you can do that.
It is helpful to first
imagine how these two
classes would look.
Here for instance, you could
have a corpus consisting
of four tweets.
Associated with that corpus,
you would have a set of unique
words, your vocabulary.
In this example,
your vocabulary would
have eight unique words.
For this particular example
of sentiment analysis,
you have two classes.
One class associated with
positive sentiment and the
other with negative sentiment.
So taking your corpus,
you'd have a set of two tweets
that belong to the
positive class,
and the sets of two tweets that
belong to the negative class.
Let's take the sets
of positive tweets.
Now, take a look at
your vocabulary.
To get the positive frequency in
any word in your vocabulary,
you will have to
count the times as it
appears in the positive tweets.
For instance, the word happy
appears one time in the
first positive tweet,
and another time in the
second positive tweet.
So it's positive
frequency is two.
The complete table
looks like this.
Feel free to take a pause and
check any of its entries.
The same logic applies for
getting the negative frequency.
However, for the sake of clarity,
look at some example,
the word am appears two times in
the first tweet and another
time in the second one.
So it's negative
frequency is three.
Take a look at the
entire table for
negative frequencies and feel
free to check its values.
So this is the entire table with
the positive and negative
frequencies for your corpus.
In practice when coding,
this table is a
dictionary mapping from
a word class there
to its frequency.
So it maps the word and
its corresponding class to
the frequency or the number of
times that's where it
showed up in the class.
You now know how to create
a frequency dictionary,
which maps a word
and the class to
the number of times that word
showed up in the
corresponding class.
In the next video,
you're going to use
your frequency dictionary
to represent a tweet.